SECURITY.md, before:

# Reporting security vulnerabilities

Oracle values the independent security research community and believes that
responsible disclosure of security vulnerabilities helps us ensure the security
and privacy of all our users.

Please do NOT raise a GitHub Issue to report a security vulnerability. If you
believe you have found a security vulnerability, please submit a report to
[secalert_us@oracle.com][1] preferably with a proof of concept. Please review
some additional information on [how to report security vulnerabilities to Oracle][2].
We encourage people who contact Oracle Security to use email encryption using
[our encryption key][3].

We ask that you do not use other channels or contact the project maintainers
directly.

Non-vulnerability related security issues including ideas for new or improved
security features are welcome on GitHub Issues.

## Security updates, alerts and bulletins

Security updates will be released on a regular cadence. Many of our projects
will typically release security fixes in conjunction with the
[Oracle Critical Patch Update][3] program. Additional
information, including past advisories, is available on our [security alerts][4]
page.

## Security-related information

We will provide security related information such as a threat model, considerations
for secure use, or any known security issues in our documentation. Please note
that labs and sample code are intended to demonstrate a concept and may not be
sufficiently hardened for production use.

[1]: mailto:secalert_us@oracle.com
[2]: https://www.oracle.com/corporate/security-practices/assurance/vulnerability/reporting.html
[3]: https://www.oracle.com/security-alerts/encryptionkey.html
[4]: https://www.oracle.com/security-alerts/

Commit message:

Go implementation with OCI Vault support (#21)
* add list of default metrics in readme

* readme updates

* various updates

* README.md updates

* README.md updates

* basic example

* adds... 1. ability to specify DATA_SOURCE_USER, DATA_SOURCE_PASSWORD, and DATA_SOURCE_SERVICENAME individually rather than as one DATA_SOURCE_NAME entry (thus more secure) 2. multi-database support via "/scrape" endpoint with "target" param taking dns for specific database (this will soon be enhanced so that it is instead configurable, again to be more secure) . Also, updated POM entries for 21.7 version.

* adds multi-datasource support based on configuration which includes OCI Vault support and various fixes.

* adds multi-datasource support based on configuration which includes OCI Vault support and various fixes.

* Go implementation with OCI Vault support

SECURITY.md, after:

# Reporting Security Vulnerabilities

Oracle values the independent security research community, and believes that
responsible disclosure of security vulnerabilities helps us to ensure the security
and privacy of all of our users.

Please do NOT raise a GitHub Issue to report a security vulnerability. If you
believe you have found a security vulnerability, then please submit a report to
[secalert_us@oracle.com][1] preferably with a proof of concept. Please review
some additional information on [how to report security vulnerabilities to Oracle][2].
Oracle encourages anyone who contacts Oracle Security to use email encryption, using
[our encryption key][3].

Please do not use other channels, or contact the project maintainers
directly.

For non-vulnerability related security issues, including ideas for new or improved
security features, you are welcome to post these as GitHub Issues.

## Security Updates, Alerts and Bulletins

Oracle issues security updates on a regular cadence. Many of our projects typically include release security fixes in conjunction with the [Oracle Critical Patch Update][3] program. Security updates are released on the
Tuesday closest to the 17th day of January, April, July and October. A pre-release announcement will be published on the Thursday preceding each release. Additional information, including past advisories, is available on our [security alerts][4]
page.

## Security-Related Information

Oracle will provide security-related information in our documentation. The information can be a threat model, best practices for secure use, or any known security issues. Please note
that labs and example code are intended to demonstrate a concept. These examples should not be used for production use without ensuring that the code is hardened, and in compliance with common security practices.

[1]: mailto:secalert_us@oracle.com
[2]: https://www.oracle.com/corporate/security-practices/assurance/vulnerability/reporting.html
[3]: https://www.oracle.com/security-alerts/encryptionkey.html
[4]: https://www.oracle.com/security-alerts/
