site/docs/configuration/custom-metrics.md, before:

---
title: Custom Metrics
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Custom Metrics

The exporter allows definition of arbitrary custom metrics in one or more TOML or YAML files.

To specify custom metrics files
exporter, use the `metrics` configuration in the [config file](./config-file.md):

```yaml
metrics:
  ## How often to scrape metrics. If not provided, metrics will be scraped on request.
  # scrapeInterval: 15s
  ## Path to default metrics file.
  default: default-metrics.toml
  ## Paths to any custom metrics files (TOML or YAML)
  custom:
    - custom-metrics-example/custom-metrics.toml
```

You may also use `--custom.metrics` flag followed by a comma separated list of TOML or YAML files, or export `CUSTOM_METRICS` variable environment (`export CUSTOM_METRICS=my-custom-metrics.toml,my-other-custom-metrics.toml`)

### Metric Schema

Metrics files must contain a series of `[[metric]]` definitions, in TOML, or the equivalent definition in a YAML file. Each metric definition must follow the exporter's metric schema:

| Field Name       | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Type                              | Required | Default                           |
|------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------|----------|-----------------------------------|
| context          | Metric context, used to build metric FQN                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | String                            | Yes      |                                   |
| labels           | Metric labels, which must match column names in the query. Any column that is not a label will be parsed as a metric                                                                                                                                      | Array of Strings                  | No       |                                   |
| metricsdesc      | Mapping between field(s) in the request and comment(s)                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Dictionary of Strings             | Yes      |                                   |
| metricstype      | Mapping between field(s) in the request and [Prometheus metric types](https://prometheus.io/docs/concepts/metric_types/)                                                                                                                                  | Dictionary of Strings             | No       |                                   |
| metricsbuckets   | Split [histogram](https://prometheus.io/docs/concepts/metric_types/#histogram) metric types into buckets based on value ([example](https://github.com/oracle/oracle-db-appdev-monitoring/blob/main/custom-metrics-example/metric-histogram-example.toml)) | Dictionary of String dictionaries | No       |                                   |
| fieldtoappend    | Field from the request to append to the metric FQN                                                                                                                                                                                                        | String                            | No       |                                   |
| request          | Oracle database query to run for metrics scraping                                                                                                                                                                                                         | String                            | Yes      |                                   |
| ignorezeroresult | Whether or not an error will be printed if the request does not return any results                                                                                                                                                                        | Boolean                           | No       | false                             |
| querytimeout     | Oracle Database query timeout duration, e.g., 300ms, 0.5h                                                                                                                                                                                                 | String duration                   | No       | Value of query.timeout in seconds |
| scrapeinterval   | Custom metric scrape interval, used if scrape.interval is provided, otherwise metrics are always scraped on request.                                                                                                                                      | String duration                   | No       |                                   |
| databases        | Optional array of databases to scrape from. If not specified, the metric is scraped from all databases.                                                                                                                                                   | Array of Strings                  | No       |                                   |

### Example Metric Definition

Here's a simple example of a metric definition:

```toml
[[metric]]
context = "test"
request = "SELECT 1 as value_1, 2 as value_2 FROM DUAL"
metricsdesc = { value_1 = "Simple example returning always 1.", value_2 = "Same but returning always 2." }
```

> NOTE: Do not add a semicolon (`;`) at the end of the SQL queries.

This file produce the following entries in the exporter:

```text
# HELP oracledb_test_value_1 Simple example returning always 1.
# TYPE oracledb_test_value_1 gauge
oracledb_test_value_1 1
# HELP oracledb_test_value_2 Same but returning always 2.
# TYPE oracledb_test_value_2 gauge
oracledb_test_value_2 2
```

You can also provide labels using `labels` field. Here's an example providing two metrics, with and without labels:

```toml
[[metric]]
context = "context_no_label"
request = "SELECT 1 as value_1, 2 as value_2 FROM DUAL"
metricsdesc = { value_1 = "Simple example returning always 1.", value_2 = "Same but returning always 2." }

[[metric]]
context = "context_with_labels"
labels = [ "label_1", "label_2" ]
request = "SELECT 1 as value_1, 2 as value_2, 'First label' as label_1, 'Second label' as label_2 FROM DUAL"
metricsdesc = { value_1 = "Simple example returning always 1.", value_2 = "Same but returning always 2." }
```

This TOML file produces the following result:

```text
# HELP oracledb_context_no_label_value_1 Simple example returning always 1.
# TYPE oracledb_context_no_label_value_1 gauge
oracledb_context_no_label_value_1 1
# HELP oracledb_context_no_label_value_2 Same but returning always 2.
# TYPE oracledb_context_no_label_value_2 gauge
oracledb_context_no_label_value_2 2
# HELP oracledb_context_with_labels_value_1 Simple example returning always 1.
# TYPE oracledb_context_with_labels_value_1 gauge
oracledb_context_with_labels_value_1{label_1="First label",label_2="Second label"} 1
# HELP oracledb_context_with_labels_value_2 Same but returning always 2.
# TYPE oracledb_context_with_labels_value_2 gauge
oracledb_context_with_labels_value_2{label_1="First label",label_2="Second label"} 2
```

Last, you can set metric type using **metricstype** field.

```toml
[[metric]]
context = "context_with_labels"
labels = [ "label_1", "label_2" ]
request = "SELECT 1 as value_1, 2 as value_2, 'First label' as label_1, 'Second label' as label_2 FROM DUAL"
metricsdesc = { value_1 = "Simple example returning always 1 as counter.", value_2 = "Same but returning always 2 as gauge." }
# Can be counter or gauge (default)
metricstype = { value_1 = "counter" }
```

This TOML file will produce the following result:

```text
# HELP oracledb_test_value_1 Simple test example returning always 1 as counter.
# TYPE oracledb_test_value_1 counter
oracledb_test_value_1 1
# HELP oracledb_test_value_2 Same test but returning always 2 as gauge.
# TYPE oracledb_test_value_2 gauge
oracledb_test_value_2 2
```

You can find [working examples](https://github.com/oracle/oracle-db-appdev-monitoring/blob/main/custom-metrics-example/custom-metrics.toml) of custom metrics for slow queries, big queries and top 100 tables.
An example of [custom metrics for Transacational Event Queues](https://github.com/oracle/oracle-db-appdev-monitoring/blob/main/custom-metrics-example/txeventq-metrics.toml) is also provided.

### Customize metrics in a container image

If you run the exporter as a container image and want to include your custom metrics in the image itself, you can use the following example `Dockerfile` to create a new image:

```Dockerfile
FROM container-registry.oracle.com/database/observability-exporter:2.0.3
COPY custom-metrics.toml /
ENTRYPOINT ["/oracledb_exporter", "--custom.metrics", "/custom-metrics.toml"]
```

Commit message:

Support labels for metric.fielddtoappend (#351)
Signed-off-by: Anders Swanson <anders.swanson@oracle.com>

site/docs/configuration/custom-metrics.md, after:

---
title: Custom Metrics
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Custom Metrics

The exporter allows definition of arbitrary custom metrics in one or more TOML or YAML files.

To specify custom metrics files
exporter, use the `metrics` configuration in the [config file](./config-file.md):

```yaml
metrics:
  ## How often to scrape metrics. If not provided, metrics will be scraped on request.
  # scrapeInterval: 15s
  ## Path to default metrics file.
  default: default-metrics.toml
  ## Paths to any custom metrics files (TOML or YAML)
  custom:
    - custom-metrics-example/custom-metrics.toml
```

You may also use `--custom.metrics` flag followed by a comma separated list of TOML or YAML files, or export `CUSTOM_METRICS` variable environment (`export CUSTOM_METRICS=my-custom-metrics.toml,my-other-custom-metrics.toml`)

### Metric Schema

Metrics files must contain a series of `[[metric]]` definitions, in TOML, or the equivalent definition in a YAML file. Each metric definition must follow the exporter's metric schema:

| Field Name       | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Type                              | Required | Default                           |
|------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------|----------|-----------------------------------|
| context          | Metric context, used to build metric FQN                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | String                            | Yes      |                                   |
| labels           | Metric labels, which must match column names in the query. Any column that is not a label will be parsed as a metric                                                                                                                                      | Array of Strings                  | No       |                                   |
| metricsdesc      | Mapping between field(s) in the request and comment(s)                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Dictionary of Strings             | Yes      |                                   |
| metricstype      | Mapping between field(s) in the request and [Prometheus metric types](https://prometheus.io/docs/concepts/metric_types/)                                                                                                                                  | Dictionary of Strings             | No       |                                   |
| metricsbuckets   | Split [histogram](https://prometheus.io/docs/concepts/metric_types/#histogram) metric types into buckets based on value ([example](https://github.com/oracle/oracle-db-appdev-monitoring/blob/main/custom-metrics-example/metric-histogram-example.toml)) | Dictionary of String dictionaries | No       |                                   |
| fieldtoappend    | Field from the request to append to the metric FQN. This field will **not** be included in the metric labels.                                                                                                                                             | String                            | No       |                                   |
| request          | Oracle database query to run for metrics scraping                                                                                                                                                                                                         | String                            | Yes      |                                   |
| ignorezeroresult | Whether or not an error will be printed if the request does not return any results                                                                                                                                                                        | Boolean                           | No       | false                             |
| querytimeout     | Oracle Database query timeout duration, e.g., 300ms, 0.5h                                                                                                                                                                                                 | String duration                   | No       | Value of query.timeout in seconds |
| scrapeinterval   | Custom metric scrape interval, used if scrape.interval is provided, otherwise metrics are always scraped on request.                                                                                                                                      | String duration                   | No       |                                   |
| databases        | Optional array of databases to scrape from. If not specified, the metric is scraped from all databases.                                                                                                                                                   | Array of Strings                  | No       |                                   |

### Example Metric Definition

Here's a simple example of a metric definition:

```toml
[[metric]]
context = "test"
request = "SELECT 1 as value_1, 2 as value_2 FROM DUAL"
metricsdesc = { value_1 = "Simple example returning always 1.", value_2 = "Same but returning always 2." }
```

> NOTE: Do not add a semicolon (`;`) at the end of the SQL queries.

This file produce the following entries in the exporter:

```text
# HELP oracledb_test_value_1 Simple example returning always 1.
# TYPE oracledb_test_value_1 gauge
oracledb_test_value_1 1
# HELP oracledb_test_value_2 Same but returning always 2.
# TYPE oracledb_test_value_2 gauge
oracledb_test_value_2 2
```

You can also provide labels using `labels` field. Here's an example providing two metrics, with and without labels:

```toml
[[metric]]
context = "context_no_label"
request = "SELECT 1 as value_1, 2 as value_2 FROM DUAL"
metricsdesc = { value_1 = "Simple example returning always 1.", value_2 = "Same but returning always 2." }

[[metric]]
context = "context_with_labels"
labels = [ "label_1", "label_2" ]
request = "SELECT 1 as value_1, 2 as value_2, 'First label' as label_1, 'Second label' as label_2 FROM DUAL"
metricsdesc = { value_1 = "Simple example returning always 1.", value_2 = "Same but returning always 2." }
```

This TOML file produces the following result:

```text
# HELP oracledb_context_no_label_value_1 Simple example returning always 1.
# TYPE oracledb_context_no_label_value_1 gauge
oracledb_context_no_label_value_1 1
# HELP oracledb_context_no_label_value_2 Same but returning always 2.
# TYPE oracledb_context_no_label_value_2 gauge
oracledb_context_no_label_value_2 2
# HELP oracledb_context_with_labels_value_1 Simple example returning always 1.
# TYPE oracledb_context_with_labels_value_1 gauge
oracledb_context_with_labels_value_1{label_1="First label",label_2="Second label"} 1
# HELP oracledb_context_with_labels_value_2 Same but returning always 2.
# TYPE oracledb_context_with_labels_value_2 gauge
oracledb_context_with_labels_value_2{label_1="First label",label_2="Second label"} 2
```

Last, you can set metric type using **metricstype** field.

```toml
[[metric]]
context = "context_with_labels"
labels = [ "label_1", "label_2" ]
request = "SELECT 1 as value_1, 2 as value_2, 'First label' as label_1, 'Second label' as label_2 FROM DUAL"
metricsdesc = { value_1 = "Simple example returning always 1 as counter.", value_2 = "Same but returning always 2 as gauge." }
# Can be counter or gauge (default)
metricstype = { value_1 = "counter" }
```

This TOML file will produce the following result:

```text
# HELP oracledb_test_value_1 Simple test example returning always 1 as counter.
# TYPE oracledb_test_value_1 counter
oracledb_test_value_1 1
# HELP oracledb_test_value_2 Same test but returning always 2 as gauge.
# TYPE oracledb_test_value_2 gauge
oracledb_test_value_2 2
```

You can find [working examples](https://github.com/oracle/oracle-db-appdev-monitoring/blob/main/custom-metrics-example/custom-metrics.toml) of custom metrics for slow queries, big queries and top 100 tables.
An example of [custom metrics for Transacational Event Queues](https://github.com/oracle/oracle-db-appdev-monitoring/blob/main/custom-metrics-example/txeventq-metrics.toml) is also provided.

### Customize metrics in a container image

If you run the exporter as a container image and want to include your custom metrics in the image itself, you can use the following example `Dockerfile` to create a new image:

```Dockerfile
FROM container-registry.oracle.com/database/observability-exporter:2.0.3
COPY custom-metrics.toml /
ENTRYPOINT ["/oracledb_exporter", "--custom.metrics", "/custom-metrics.toml"]
```
